[Tutorials] Update Bounce Rate Tutorial (#10106)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/tutorials/bounce-rate.md

---
title: How to calculate bounce rate
date: 2024-12-11
author:
  - ian-vanagas
  - bijan-boustani
showTitle: true
sidebar: Docs
tags:
  - insights
  - hogql
  - product analytics
  - web analytics
---

> Bounce rate is the percentage of users who leave a page immediately after visiting. It is a popular marketing metric showing the relevance and engagement of content for site visitors. This tutorial shows you how to calculate bounce rate in PostHog.

Reviewer: > Bounce rate is the percentage of users who leave a page immediately after visiting.

Is this accurate? I thought bounce rate was users who land on a page and do nothing?

Looks like this is the [definition they use in GA4](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/12195621?hl=en). I actually vaguely remember bringing this up when @ivanagas first wrote this tutorial. I don't remember what the answer was, though

Reviewer: Right. So that means the definition here is incorrect of leave a page "immediately" is incorrect

Author: Agreed that the intro was a little confusing when contrasted with how we define bounce rate. I went ahead and rewrote the intro here and I think it's much clearer now:
https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/pull/10106/files#diff-053c49ad5fdf99aeafb37ce839ecd20f3037aee42e833ed000974052a3e075aeR16

> To get started, you need to install the [snippet](/docs/getting-started/install?tab=snippet) or [JavaScript SDK](/docs/libraries/js). And ensure the following settings are enabled in your project settings:

Reviewer: This section feels a bit out of place, since we talk about installation, then jump into defiintion of "How we define bounce rate". I think we should move that bounce rate definition above this
```suggestion
To get started, you need to install PostHog's [web snippet](/docs/getting-started/install?tab=snippet) or [JavaScript SDK](/docs/libraries/js). Then ensure the following settings are enabled in your project settings:
```

- [Record user sessions](https://app.posthog.com/settings/environment#replay)
- [Enable autocapture for web](https://app.posthog.com/settings/environment-autocapture#autocapture)

## How do we define bounce rate?

Your bounce rate is the percentage of sessions that resulted in a bounce. We define a bounce as a session where a visitor:

- spent less than 10 seconds on a page
- did not [autocapture](/docs/product-analytics/autocapture) any events

> - only had one pageview

Reviewer: This seems to contradict our earlier defintion we mentioned in the opening paragraph

Reviewer 2: I think it would work if we included this in the opening section: 

- Bounce rate is generally "go to page, do nothing, leave"
- Why bounce rate matters (maybe)
- For us, it is X. For GA, it is Y.
- To get started measuring bounce rate, set up PostHog

> > **How does Google Analytics 4 [calculate bounce rate](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/12195621?hl=en)?** It is the percentage of sessions that **do not** last longer than 10 seconds, have a conversion event, or have at least 2 pageviews or screenviews.

Reviewer: Seems very similar to ours? Perhaps we should mention what the differences are

Author: Agreed. I rewrote this slightly to indicate that we're showing similarities instead of contrasting.
https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/pull/10106/files#diff-053c49ad5fdf99aeafb37ce839ecd20f3037aee42e833ed000974052a3e075aeR31

## Viewing bounce rate with Web analytics

> [Web analytics](/web-analytics) makes it easy to see the bounce rate for a given page on your website. Navigate to your [web analytics dashboard](https://app.posthog.com/web), and you'll find the bounce rate listed alongside each page in the paths section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostHog's [web analytics](/web-analytics) makes it easy to see the bounce rate for a given page on your website. Navigate to your [web analytics dashboard](https://app.posthog.com/web), and you'll find the bounce rate listed alongside each page in the paths section.
```

<ProductScreenshot
    imageLight="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_paths_light_fb2b05a261.png"
    imageDark="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_paths_dark_0e6cd85638.png"
    alt="Bounce rates"
    classes="rounded"
/>

> ## Calculating bounce rate with SQL insights

Reviewer: nice section

```sql
SELECT
    round(avg($is_bounce) * 100, 1) AS bounce_rate
FROM
    sessions
WHERE
    $entry_pathname = '/'
```

The query above will only work for sessions that started on the home page. If we want to find the bounce rate for the `/pricing` page (not only for sessions that started on that page), we'll need to join on the `events` table and filter for pageviews that match the URL.

```sql
SELECT
    round(avg($is_bounce) * 100, 1) AS bounce_rate
FROM
    sessions
    INNER JOIN events ON sessions.id = events.properties.$session_id
WHERE
    event = '$pageview'
    AND properties.$current_url LIKE '%/pricing%'
```

## Using different bounce criteria

For more granular control, we can redefine which sessions constitute a bounce with our own criteria. For example, we could find all sessions that had a single pageview and did not capture any events, but disregard the session duration.

```sql
SELECT
    round(
        avg(
            CASE
                WHEN $autocapture_count = 0
                AND $pageview_count = 1 THEN 1.0
                ELSE 0.0
            END
        ) * 100, 1
    ) AS bounce_rate
FROM
    sessions
WHERE
    $entry_pathname = '/pricing'
```

> ## Calculating bounce rate with raw session replay data

Reviewer: Needs a bit mentioning that session replay needs to be enabled
